---
title: Water Filtration
---

Try this experiment — unscrew the aerator from your kitchen tap and look at what
your drinking. That’s only what you can see!

Report Plumbing provide sales, installation and annual servicing direct to you.
A one stop service — water filtration within your home ensures the best for your
families daily needs. Tailor a filter to your lifestyle and water quality. With
such a large marketplace to shop in, it is easy to become confused and lost when
deciding on a water filtration system for your home. Call today for a free in
home quotation.

## R/O units (Reverse osmosis units)

Undersink reverse osmosis have the convenience of being hidden away in the
cupboards under, or near the sink, and supplying water to a dedicated tap
(faucet) fitted through the sink or bench top. Undersink ROs have a pressurised
storage tank and deliver the water quickly at around 3 – 4 litres per minute,
depending on the mains water pressure. This type of system doesn’t produce the
water any faster than the other types, but is totally automatic in operation and
keeps it’s storage tank in a constant state of top-up. When you turn the faucet
on, it comes out quickly from the storage tank, the system turns it’s self on,
replaces what you took from the tank, and when the tank is full again it
automatically turns it’s self off again. This is done without power as it uses
the pressure in the mains to operate a system of check valves, piston and
diaphragms to turn the water on and off to the system.

Reverse Osmosis (RO) is a process where water is treated using a semi permeable
membrane at pressure. Reverse osmosis is osmosis in reverse. Osmosis is most
mostly observed in plants. If you don’t water your plants they die. A plant cell
is a semi permeable (water flows through the membrane but contaminates and salt
don’t) membrane with the living part on the inside in a salty/sap solution.
Water is drawn into the cell from the environment because pure water will move
across a semi permeable membrane. This is how water is drawn in from the soil
when you water your plants. If you salt your plants (over fertilize or spill
some salt on the grass), the plant will wilt because the salt concentration on
the outside of the cell is higher than the inside and water then moves across
the membrane from the inside to the outside. Reverse osmosis is reversed because
contaminated water (salty) is drawn naturally towards clean water so it is
placed under pressure to obtain the purified water and reject the contaminated.
If this sounds a bit strange consider that hot water is naturally drawn towards
cold water not the other way around.

## WFA HiFlow inline system

The HiFlow water filter system is a revolution to the filtered water industry.
The system is easy to install, connecting directly to any mixer tap or cold
water tap. This allows you to enjoy your own great tasting, clear, freshly
filtered water any time at full pressure. With half micron filtration you really
can bottle your own filtered water. Enjoy it not only for drinking but for
washing fruit and vegetables and in food preparation including baby formulas.
The HiFlow not only removes bad taste and odor but is certified to remove/reduce
contaminants including lead, cysts, giardia, cryptosporidium and chlorine. The
filter system inhibits limescale buildup in water using appliances but does not
remove fluoride and healthy natural minerals and salts.

## H54 filter kit and tap

the H-54 reduces the following contaminants: lead, cysts such as Giardia
lamblia, Entamoeba histolytica and Cryptosporidium parvum. This system also
reduces: chlorine taste and odor, dirt and cloudiness, mould and algae, oxidized
iron, oxidized manganese & oxidized sulfides.

## WHO System (Whole of house system)

Designed to be plumbed to your mains water inlet point and allows for the entire
house to have safe clean water 365 day a year.

**Rainwater Filters** – also available – pending the end use of your rainwater.
